TITLE: Putin’s spokesman likens Weinstein accusers to prostitutes LINK: http://www.12news.com/article/news/nation-now/putins-spokesman-likens-weinstein-accusers-to-prostitutes/465-445732f0-e0f3-4786-94e7-51d033c21b1e
Russian President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman, dismissing accusations that a Russian legislator had sexually harassed female journalists, asked why the women stayed quiet all these months, arguing that similar complaints against Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein were made by actresses who were effectively “prostitutes.”

Dmitry Peskov says “they earned hundreds of millions of dollars, and after 10 years they say that Weinstein is bad,” according to Russia's Sputnik news service. He says “none of them went to the police, did not say ‘Weinstein raped me.’.. No! (they) wanted to earn $10 million.” “What’s the name of a woman who slept with a man for $10 million?" he added. "Maybe, I’m speaking crudely, she’s called a prostitute.” Pskov made his comments on a talk show hosted by the Russian Higher School of Economics, saying he was speaking personally and not on behalf of the Kremlin. He was addressing a sex scandal involving Leonid Slutsky, chairman of the foreign relations committee in Russia’s lower house of parliament. Slutsky was accused of sexual harassment by Dozhd (Rain) TV channel producer Daria Zhuk and BBC Russian Service correspondent Farida Rustamova, who filed complaints to the parliamentary ethics committee. "If Slutsky assaulted this poor journalist where was she all this time? If he harassed you, why did you keep quiet? Why didn’t you go to the police? Why, after so much time has passed, did you go to the ethics committee instead," Peskov asked. The Russian independent trade Union of journalists wrote an open letter to the Duma calling for a condemnation of Slutsky after the ethics committee committee dismissed the accusations as unfounded. That in turn prompted several Russian news outlets, including Dozhd, RTVI, RBC, Kommersant, and Novaya Gazeta, to withdraw their journalists from any dealings with the legislator,