TITLE: The JO voting reminiscence of Pan_Sinhala Era Approach LINK: http://www.asiantribune.com/node/91742
h pattern of voting in favor of the ‘No Confidence’ against Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe clearly indicated - A Pan Sinhala Move. Those 76 Parliamentarians who voted in favor of the Motion – out of them, no one were from the National Minorities. Even Kader Masthan, A Muslim from Vanni, who signed the Motion along with the Joint Opposition ‘took to his heels,’ during the time of voting. The other Muslim MPs who were in the SLFP - State Minister M.A.L.M. Hisbullah, State Minister A.H.M. Fowzie, Minister Faizer Mustapha, too failed to identify themselves voting in favor of the Motion and were absent at the time of voting. The only Tami, the Party List MP Angajan Ramanathan, too was seen found missing, at the time of voting. Even on the day before the Motion was taken up for debate and voting, it was widely reported that President Sirisena took exception to Tamils (TNA) supporting the Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe, reacted ‘immediately’ and has warned the UNP MPs that it would be counterproductive for them to enlist the backing of the TNA to face the no-confidence motion. The President, said it would send a 'wrong message' to the public. However, the UNP had made it clear that they would welcome the TNA's support to defeat the no-confidence motion without any hesitation. So, according to an international observer it, was a repetition of the 1936 Pan Sinhala move of the State Council era. The No-Confidence Motion against the Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe was handed over to the Speaker by the Joint Opposition led by former President Rajapaksa on 21 March, carrying the signatures of 55 MPs, including 51 from the Joint Opposition nd four SLFP members in the Government ranks. The debate on the No Confidence motion kicked off yesterday (4th April) around 9.30 AM and went on till 9.30 PM – a twelve long hours of harangue. At the end of the debate, division was called by Leader of the House Minister Lakshman Kiriella to end the uncertainty against the Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe, who was elected in the last Parliamentary General Elections, held on 17 August 2015, with the highest preferential votes in any election with 500,556 votes, beating Mahind Rajapaksa by a considerable margin - Rajapaksa garnering 423,529 preferential votes in that same election. Subsequently by 9.30 PM Speaker Karu Jayasuriya moved the House for a vote. Secretary General of Parliament Dhammika Dassanayake read out the names of 224 MPs (Speaker Jayasuriya not included), and each of them present was asked to state ‘Yes’ or ‘No’. Voting started at 9.30 pm and ended around 10 pm. The no-confidence motion against the Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe received 76 votes in favour and 122 votes against, while 26 MPs were absent at the time when division was taken by name. The SLFPers who voted in favor of the motion included Parliamentarians Susil Premajayantha, Dayasiri Jayasekara, Dilan Perera, John Seneviratne, Lakshman Wasantha Perera, Dr. Sudarshani Fernandopulle, Tharanath Basnayake, Susantha Punchinilame, Anura Yapa, S. B. Dissanayake, Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena, Chandima Weerakkody, Anuradha Jayaratne and Sumedha Jayasena. A total of 26 MPs were absent during the time of voting. Among them were Parliamentarians Mahinda Amaraweera, Dr Sarath Amunugama, Nimal Siripala, Duminda Dissanayake, Faiszer Musthapha, Mahinda Samarasinghe, Ranjith Siyambalapitiya, Vijith Vijithamuni Soysa, Piyasena Gamage, Mohan Lal Grero, Shriyani Wijewickrema, Lakshman Seneviratne, AHM Hisbulla, AHM Fowzie, Lasantha Alagiyawanna, Sarathi Dushmantha, Manusha Nanayakkara, Malith Jayathilake, Arumugam Thondaman, Weerakumara Dissanayake, Angajan Ramanathan and notably Kader Masthan who signed the No-Confidence Motion. State Minister Palitha Range Bandara and Wasantha Senanayake who wre poised to support the JO motion changed their minds and voted against the Motion. UNP member, former Minister of Justice Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe who was stripped of his ministerial portfolio recently, also voted against the motion. Also EPDP Leader Douglas DEvananda MP voted Against the Motion while the the six members of the JVP voted in favor of the motion along with the Joint Opposition MPs. The minority parties led by Ministers Rauf Hakeem (SLMC), Rishad Bathiudeen (ACMC), Mano Ganesan and P Digambaram (TPA), voted against the Motion. They all belonged to UNF Group and contested the July 2015 Parliamentary General Elections in the UNP ticket, except for one. In the meantime almost all the 16 Tamil National Alliance Parliamentarians led by Leader of the Opposition R.Samanthan MP voted against the Motion. Opposition Leader R.Sampanthan noted that the no-confidence motion against the Prime Minister does not reveal anything specific against the prime minister. “The true intentions of the SLPP is shrouded in an environment of prejudice based upon the bond scam. We cannot fall victim to such acts and allow ourselves to be used to achieve their political objectives,”Sampanthan said, adding that in the interest of this country they have to work together in a spirit of cooperation. “With regard to the Central Bank bond scam, consequent to investigations two persons are in custody and a warrant is issued against a third person and investigations are proceeding.no one should be spared and the rule of law should be implemented irrespective of who they are. The motion of no confidence seeks to implicate the prime minister with the bond scam. Statements of actions of a general nature are thought to be used in an attempt to implicate the prime minister with the bond scam. The wording of the motion and the timing of the motion are indicative of a pursuit of a political agenda through the motion rather than fixing responsibility with regard to the bond scam. The question must be raised as to why the wording is so weak lacking in any specific charge against the prime minister pertaining to the band scam per say. Why should this motion be brought now?” he asked. The Opposition leader said the wording of the NCM is too loose and too general in nature. “It could be that the Prime Minister is facing this situation because of the confidence he placed in someone who betrayed him. Where is the evidence or charge against the Prime Minister of involvement in the bond scam per say? Is the wording of the NCM so loose and so general because of the lack of specific material against the Prime Minister in regard to the bond scam? If that is so, in my submission the motion lacks credibility.” With regard to the timing of the motion, Sampanthan said that this bond scam occurred three years ago and it has been the subject of public focus for a long time and why has this NCM brought against the PM only now? However, 33 UNP legislators signed a petition soon after the vote demanding Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe to sack the SLFP dissenters in the cabinet. In the meantime, Ministers among the 19 SLFP MPs who voted against Ranil Wickremesinghe grudgingly demanded that they be allowed to continue in the cabinet despite their lack of confidence in the government. The ministers include Dayasiri Jayasekara, Anura Yapa, Susil Premajayantha, John Seneviratne , Chandima Weerakkody and Dilan Perera. Ranil came back with the majority of 46 votes – don’t know whether unscathed? However the ramification of the whole exercise not over- we have to wait for repercussions – worst to come marching? - Asian Tribune –