TITLE: Pope Francis tweets prayers for sick British baby Alfie Evans LINK: http://www.wusa9.com/article/news/nation-now/pope-francis-tweets-prayers-for-sick-british-baby-alfie-evans/465-3dc06db2-aadc-4a30-858e-67bd6d8834ca
LONDON Pope Francis once again brought global attention to a sick British infant after he tweeted prayers for a 22-month-old boy whose life support is set to be switched off. Britain’s High Court ruled last month that the hospital caring for Alfie Evans can turn off his life support, against his parents’ wishes. Doctors at the Alder Hey Children's Hospital where Alfie is admitted in Liverpool, northern England, have said continuing it is "unkind, unfair and inhumane."

Alfie has a rare degenerative neurological condition that has not been diagnosed, and is in a coma. His parents, Tom Evans and Kate James, wanted to take their son to the Vatican-owned Bambino Gesu Paediatric Hospital in Rome. Evans says Alfie's life support could be turned off as early as Friday. Pope Francis tweeted Wednesday: “It is my sincere hope that everything necessary may be done in order to continue compassionately accompanying little Alfie Evans, and that the deep suffering of his parents may be heard. I am praying for Alfie, for his family and for all who are involved.” The case echoes that of Charlie Gard, the terminally-ill British 11-month-old whose parents staged a months-long battle with the courts last year to take him to the United States for experimental treatment for mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, a rare, incurable genetic disorder that left him with brain damage and unable to move. Charlie’s parents, Chris Gard and Connie Yates, withdrew the challenge after latest tests revealed their son was unlikely to benefit from treatment. Charlie’s life support was turned off in July. Pope Francis tweeted his support for Gard and Yates before Charlie’s death and President Trump offered the family assistance. In Britain, disputes between families and doctors over how to treat a patient are decided by courts. In the U.S., the family makes the decision.

It is my sincere hope that everything necessary may be done in order to continue compassionately accompanying little Alfie Evans, and that the deep suffering of his parents may be heard. I am praying for Alfie, for his family and for all who are involved. Pope Francis (@Pontifex)

In a separate British case, Noel Conway , 68, who has terminal motor neuron disease, was earlier this year granted permission to appeal the High Court’s rejection of his wish to let a doctor prescribe him a lethal drug dose when his condition deteriorates.

"I believe it is possible to change the law so that vulnerable people can be protected whilst at the same time allowing those who are terminally ill, who are fully aware of what they're doing, to control and manage the final days of their life humanely and with dignity," Conway wrote in an article on the website of Dignity in Dying , a British campaign group. "It has to be a fundamental human right," he said.