TITLE: City dad, sports execs engage grassroots in sports dev’t LINK: http://www.pna.gov.ph/articles/1030919
CALAMBA CITY, Laguna Mayor Justin Marc SB. Chipeco has lauded the grassroots sports development program of the Philippine Sports Commission (PSC), through its Philippine Sports Institute (PSI), in partnership with the city government. Speaking during the kick off rites of the PSC-PSI grassroots sports development project on Tuesday, Chipeco also urged the sports officials and stakeholders from the city’s 54 barangays, various colleges and universities and civil society organizations to engage in fruitful collaborative partnerships. “Magtulungan po tayo at dapat tangkilikin natin ang ating mga grassroots sports programs (let us support this endeavor and promote our grassroots sports program),” Chipeco said. He assured of the city government’s fund support to sustain the grassroots development program through the initiatives of the city’s Cultural Affairs, Tourism and Sports Development Office (CATSDO). In an interview Thursday, CATSDO head Larissa Malinao said the program has embarked on its three-day consultative meeting on Grassroots Coaching Program and Sports Science Series with officials of the PSC-PSI at the city hall, and host venue for sports science at the University of Perpetual Help Dalta System Calamba campus in Barangay Paciano Rizal. Malinao added that the reorganized Sports Development Council of the city sought the support of the PSC and PSI for the city’s sports development early this year and tapped various sports stakeholders. “This is the effort of the reorganized sports development council of the city to make the program sustainable,” she said. Department of Education (DepEd) officials, barangay officials, coaches of various sports, government employees, and athletes attended the three-day sessions on April 3-5. She said as early as 2011, the Sports Development Council was formed through an Executive Order signed by then City Mayor and now Laguna 2nd District Representative Joaquin M. Chipeco. It was later reorganized by Mayor Chipeco. Malinao said the assistance of the PSC and PSI officials are highly welcomed and appreciated as this will spur the sports development in the grassroots level with professionals from government agencies that will help produce future topnotch athletes from the city. “This is an opportunity for us to develop top athletes who will also be given a chance to receive free college education out of their sports abilities and eventually become professional athletes,” Malinao said. In a related interview, PSI deputy director for grassroots sports Salvador Marlon B. Malbog IV, said the on-going activities such as the consultative meetings and sports science series are some of the programs of PSC-PSI all over the country which they are cascading to the grassroots. “Through sports science, we will be able to help coaches and trainers in improving their knowledge in sports nutrition, sports psychology, first aid, strength and conditioning, physiology and sports rehabilitation that they can share with their athletes,“ Malbog said. He added that PSC offers all these programs for free. PSC-PSI, he said, offers sports journalism trainings, which can be availed of upon request like any other trainings on coach education and mentoring. Wednesday’s activities include consultative meeting and workshops at the City Hall while parallel Sports Science and Officiating Course for Grassroots Coaching on athletics, basketball, volleyball and swimming were held at the University of Perpetual Help. (Zen Trinidad/PNA)