TITLE: What do food hygiene ratings mean? LINK: https://www.cambridge-news.co.uk/whats-on/food-drink-news/facts-questions-food-hygiene-ratings-14496546
The Food Hygiene Rating scheme is run by the Food Standards Agency (FSA.) It is government led and operates across the UK. The scheme assesses the hygiene levels of restaurants, takeaways, food shops and cafes.

Are you a lover of all things food and drink? Keep up to date with the latest foodie trends with our Cambridge food and drink Facebook page. No ads, no spam, just the latest food and drink news direct to your Facebook feed, wherever you are. To get your foodie fix simply to join the group. click here The main aim is to ensure that all food in the UK is safe to consume.

The rankings, which run from zero (urgent improvement needed) to five (very good), are calculated by an Environmental Food Safety Officer using the food law code of practice.

The rankings are calculated by an Environmental Food Safety Officer. (Image: Getty) The rating is eventually made by adding together the points scored in each category. Points range from zero (perfect) to 25 (very poor). According to food.gov.uk at the inspection, the officer will check: How hygienically the food is handled – how it is prepared, cooked, re-heated, cooled and stored. The condition of the structure of the buildings – the cleanliness, layout, lighting, ventilation and other facilities. How the business manages what it does to make sure food is safe and so that the officer can be confident standards will be maintained in the future. What are the food hygiene ratings?

This is what the ratings look like. 0 means that urgent improvement is necessary. 1 means that major improvements are necessary. 2 means that improvements are necessary. 3 means that the business was found to be generally satisfactory. 4 means that the business was rated as good on assessment. 5 means that the business was seen as very good. Read More You can check a food hygiene rating by visiting one of two websites: scores on the doors and the FSA. A new rating is given each time the business is inspected by a food safety officer. How often inspections take place depends on the potential risk to people’s health.

Like us on Facebook; Follow us on Twitter; Daily Newsletter.

This website uses cookies. Using this website means you are okay with this but you can find out more and learn how to manage your cookie choices