TITLE: Resign now to embrace farming, Frank tells Oyegun LINK: https://www.dailytrust.com.ng/resign-now-to-embrace-farming-frank-tells-oyegun.html
The Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has advised the party’s National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun to resign the current his position to embrace farming in his home town instead of politics. Frank, who was reacting in a statement he signed yesterday in Abuja, to President Muhammadu Buhari's rejection of tenure elongation for the current National Working Committee (NWC) and other executives at all levels, faulted the view expressed by the party spokesman that the previous decision taken by NEC on tenure elongation still stands despite president’s declaration.

While challenging the NWC to tell the world if President Buhari was no longer the leader of the APC, he advised the party leaders to learn how to run party administration from the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said, “I'm telling Chief Oyegun to retire now before he disgraces President Buhari. It is shameful and disgraceful for NWC to say Buhari is not the leader of the APC. This is a way of disgracing him before Nigerians and entire world that President has no say in his own party. “I remember several times the party under Chief Oyegun could not hold meeting, not to talk of taking any decision because the President, who they claimed to be leader of the party then was not available. So, we want to know what has changed now? When it is time to take decision in their favour, Buhari is the leader of APC. But when the president took certain decision against Oyegun and his NWC, Buhari is no longer the leader. This is an embarrassment to the president.” He hailed President Buhari for his opposition to what he described as illegality. Frank, however, said that he would resign his position as the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of APC at the expiration of his tenure to pave way for new leaders, saying "I will not be part of illegal tenure extension." He said had it been the presidency and other national leaders of APC listened to him when he was speaking against impunity and selfishness of Oyegun led-national excos, the crisis APC is going through would have been minimised.