TITLE: Entrepreneur Info session organised in Goodlands LINK: http://www.govmu.org/English/News/Pages/Entrepreneur-Info-session-organised-in-Goodlands.aspx
- 06 April, 2018: An Entrepreneur Info Session , aiming to raise awareness on the different schemes and support services put at the disposal of entrepreneurs, was held yesterday at the Farmers Service Centre, in Goodlands.

The one-day event, organised by SME Mauritius Limited, was attended by the Minister of Business, Enterprise and Cooperatives, Mr Soomilduth Bholah, and other stakeholders active in the entrepreneurship field.

The session comprised interactive discussions between entrepreneurs and resource persons from seven institutions namely: MauBank, SME Equity Fund Limited, Investment Support Program set up by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, SME Registration Unit, Food and Agricultural Research & Extension Institute, SME Mauritius Limited, and Development Bank of Mauritius. The resource persons gave a short presentation of the different business development services, followed by a question and answer session.

In his address, Minister Bholah, indicated that the Info session is a key initiative to help further stimulate entrepreneurship development across Mauritius. The main purpose, he emphasised, is to address the queries of both potential and existing entrepreneurs with regards to available financial and support services provided by various institutions.

The Minister also underlined the importance of access to information, and, added that many entrepreneurs are not fully aware of the benefits that can be reaped from the available schemes. The schemes, he pointed out, have been carefully worked out and tailored to the needs of entrepreneurs with the objective of supporting business start-ups and stimulating further development of existing businesses. Mr Bholah called on entrepreneurs to make maximum use of the schemes and services put to their avail to scale up their businesses.

Speaking of SME Mauritius Limited, the Minister highlighted that the newly incorporated institution is committed to support and facilitate the development of entrepreneurship in Mauritius and is also responsible for ensuring the successful implementation of the 10-Year Master Plan. The organisation is driven by a new set of values and visions which will help to give a new impetus to the SME sector, he added.