TITLE: Epicurean Santa Barbara Opens Culinary Possibilities LINK: http://www.independent.com/news/2018/mar/29/epicurean-santa-barbara-opens-culinary-possibiliti/
“Wouldn’t it be cool if we did food events all the time?” Keith recalled thinking. “And not just for Newcomers,” continued Amy. So they took the Newcomers model of an annual membership ​— ​that money pays for administration, insurance, bookkeeping, marketing, supplies, and more ​— ​plus per-event fees and began plotting last summer along with Renee Martin and Leif Pietila, who’ve since taken more of a backseat. Help also came from advisory boardmembers Michelle Isom, Paul Astbury, and Jeremy Allen, a card-carrying oenophile who helps organize the wine events. The Epicurean offerings are much like what’s done in Newcomers, said Allen, “but seriously elevated.” Their gala launch at Sullivan Goss in November featured musicians planted amid the crowd, as Amy likes to foster the “immersive quality of the arts” and Keith sees food on the same plane as visual and performing arts. Without warning, as people mingled, a violinist and cellist started playing. “The next thing they know,” said Amy, “the person they’re speaking to is singing to them.” Said Allen, “Suddenly, the event becomes memorable.” Explained Keith, “We like to run progressive events, with a first act and a second act and a third act. It keeps people engaged.” At his stylish home with stunning Goleta-foothills-to-Carpinteria-coast views atop the Mesa, Allen recently hosted a tasting of Turtle Rock wines with vintner Don Burns, who also makes Saxum wines. Amy made excellent appetizers, and Burns spoke openly about his craft, answering questions both basic and probing with honesty and charm. By Matt Kettmann.

The wines kept flowing, as did the conversation, and all attendees got to leave with a bottle of their choice, as the ticket price includes a bottle to go. And the club doesn’t ask winemakers to pour for free, as do many tasting events of this sort ​— ​they buy all the wines up-front, which winemakers like. (The Turtle Rock post-party dinner at Black Sheep, complete with Allen’s Sine Qua Non and Torbreck bottles, was even more winemaker bait.) “We’ve approached a dozen winemakers, and no one’s turned us down,” said Keith, whose list of wineries so far also includes Booker and L’Aventure. But aside from the wine and food, Epicurean Santa Barbara is about making connections between people who love good food and drink. “It truly is a club,” said Keith, who wants to grow the membership, currently around 100, to 300. “People become friends. They come from all walks of life. It’s a good mix.” Said Allen, “You want to bond with your tribe, and this facilitates that.” 4·1·1. Epicurean Santa Barbara memberships are $195 for an individual, $295 for individual VIP , $295 for a couple, and $445 for a couple VIP . Events range in price. See