TITLE: News Minute: Here is the latest New Mexico news from The Associated Press at 1:40 a.m. MDT LINK: http://www.newswest9.com/story/32184643/news-minute-here-is-the-latest-new-mexico-news-from-the-associated-press-at-140-am-mdt
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) - New Mexico's two U.S. senators have joined fellow Democrats and environmentalists in calling for the embattled chief of the Environmental Protection Agency to resign. Sens. Tom Udall and Martin Heinrich issued statements Thursday, taking aim at Scott Pruitt's policy decisions and questions about his conduct. ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) - Documents show a New Mexico GOP state lawmaker and congressional candidate failed to disclose that her real estate company earned nearly a half-million dollars in state contracts. An analysis of campaign financial disclosure records by The Associated Press found Rep. Yvette Herrell's company took in $440,000 by renting property to two state agencies since 2013. However, Herrell did not disclose that income on ethics disclosure statements. SAN DIEGO (AP) - The U.S. National Guard faces a vastly different environment than it did on its last two deployments to the border with Mexico, with far fewer illegal crossings and more Central Americans than Mexicans coming. Still, its role is shaping up much the same: moving more Border Patrol agents from behind-the-scenes jobs to the front lines. Federal law limits military involvement in civilian law enforcement, creating a supporting role for the Guard. WASHINGTON (AP) - President Donald Trump has renewed his fierce denunciation of the nation's immigration policies. At an event in West Virginia, the president called for tougher border security while reviving his unsubstantiated claims that "millions" of people voted illegally in California. He linked immigration with the rise of violent gangs like MS-13 and suggested anew Thursday that there had been widespread fraud in the 2016 election. Copyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.