TITLE: Godolphin's Thunder Snow wins $10m Dubai World Cup LINK: https://www.khaleejtimes.com/sport/horse-racing/godolphins-thunder-snow-wins-10m-dubai-world-cup
Dubai may have been hot and humid over the past week but thunder and snow rained on the city on Saturday night. And the royal blue silks, the colours of Godolphin, hung over the spectacular Meydan Racecourse as Thunder Snow won the 23 rd renewal of the $10 million Dubai World Cup. His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, and Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai, along with other members of the Royal family after Thunder Snow won the Dubai World Cup. - Photo by Neeraj Murali. The four-year-old bay colt from Helmet, the mount of Christophe Soumillon, ended Emirati handler Saeed bin Suroor's two-year drought, in sensational style, winning the 10-furlong affair by a comprehensive five-and-three-quarter of a length over strong favourite, the USA's West Coast. Thunder Snow aced the five-horse American challenge to win in record time, putting Arrogate's 2:02:53 seconds to shade with a time of 2:01:38 seconds. It was Thunder Snow's seventh win in 18 starts but the biggest Group 1 victory of his fledging career. The win also increased Saeed bin Suroor's tally to an astonishing record eight at the Dubai World Cup, the most by any trainer. Thunder Snow's victory also brought up Suroor's 38 th win after Benbatl had triumphed in the Dubai Turf earlier on the night. And while Thunder Snow, Godolphin and Saeed bin Suroor all racked up the numbers, it was a life-long dream becoming a reality for Christophe Soumillon. The Belgian jockey notched his first Dubai World Cup in nine attempts. The 36-year-old's best result was the runner-up finish to California Chrome, on board Mubtaahij. Thunder Snow was drawn on an unfavourable Gate 10, right on the outside, but that didn't deter him as it was to be his night. Thunder Snow was out of the gates in a blink of an eye and with North America, his UAE rival, with whom he tussled in the Al Maktoum Challenge, missing the start, it made it all the more easier. But it was just one contender down and many more to go as the Americans lurked. Thunder Snow still had a job to do and he did it in some style. He kept West Coast, with whom he had exchanged the lead briefly at the start, at bay over the course of the 2000-metre contest. And Thunder Snow then went on to deny American legendary trainer Bob Baffert a second win on the trot and a fourth at the World Cup. "We won two years in a row and now we have come back and won it again. It is a great and a brilliant result," an elated Saeed bin Suroor said, moments after the race. "The jockey did a great job despite being drawn from Gate 10. What he has done, nobody has done. To take Thunder Snow from the Gate 10 and to take him to a position from where he can win is superb," added the Emirati, whose last win came with Prince Bishop, ridden by William Buick. Meanwhile, Soumillon revealed that a pre-race pep talk helped him win. "I don't know if it was Sheikh Mohammed's daughter, a little girl, she told me: 'It is small track and if you go in front then, you are going to win it.' I never thought I can do that running with that draw. He jumped quite well and I saw nobody trying to challenge me and then West Coast let me go. And when I arrived at the first corner, my horse was in front and, on the back straight, I was just cantering. He is a very funny horse and very talented but when he doesn't want to do, he doesn't and when he wants, it is just amazing. He was in great shape and pretty fit. He has shown that in Europe and last year in Kentucky. "It is difficult to say how I'm feeling because it has not sunk in. I had finished second one time but winning this was like a dream come true," said Soumillon. SOUMILLON'S FIRST. 2010: 11 on Red Desire (Mikio Matsunaga), won by Gloria De Campeo. 2011: 7 on Musir (Mike de Kock), won by Victoire Pisa. 2012: 8 on Master Of Hounds (Mike de Kock), won by Monterosso. 2013: 8 on Treasure Beach (Mike de Kock), won by Animal Kingdom. 2014: 7 on Sanshaawes (Mike de Kock), won by African Story. 2015: 9 on Epiphaneia (Katsuhiko Sumii), won by Prince Bishop. 2016: 2 on Mubtaahij (Mike de Kock), won by California Chrome. 2017: 4 on Mubtaahij (Mike de Kock), won by Arrogate. 2018: Winner on Thunder Snow (Saeed bin Suroor)